Today, we're going to talk about how
native speakers connect words in English.
This is called connected speech.
Often, sounds are reduced or changed when
words are spoken together.
We'll also learn about contractions.
Let's get started
.
Elision.
Sometimes sounds are dropped when we
speak quickly.
Examples.
I'm going to go to the doctor's tomorrow.
I'm gonna.
He shoulda gone to the store.
He shoulda.
I woulda gone if I had known.
I woulda.
You coulda told me earlier.
You coulda.
She musta missed the train.
She musta.
We mighta been late.
We mighta.
Gimme a call when you arrive.
Gimme.
Lemme know if you need anything.
Lemme.
Wanna go to the movies?
Wanna.
I gotta finish this today.
Gotta.
It's kind of funny how that happened.
Kinda.
I ran out of milk.
Outta.
I need a cup of tea.
Cuppa.
That's a lot of work.
Lotta.
Whatcha doing this weekend?
Whatcha.
I don't know what to do.
D 'know.
Assimilation.
When two sounds are next to each other,
one may change to sound more like the other.
Examples.
You have to gone -o because it's late.
You have to go.
Have to pick up the groceries.
Hafta.
Wanna eat out tonight?
Wanna.
Could you help me with this?
Could you?
Would you come with me?
Would you?
Did you see that movie?
Did you?
This shop has great deals.
This shop.
That boy is very tall.
That boy.
In Paris right now.
In Paris.
Last year was amazing.
Last year.
Good girl did well.
Good girl.
Green bag is on the table.
Green card.
Tum cards are missing.
Tum cards.
Linking.
Sounds from one word can connect with the
next word.
Examples.
Let's go on a trip this weekend
.
Go on a trip. Let's go on a trip next month.
Go on.
Do it yourself.
Do it.
How are you doing?
How are?
See it now.
See it.
Get up and get moving.
Get up.
Turn off the lights.
Turn off.
Put it over there.
Put it.
Bring it to the meeting.
Bring it.
Call up your friend.
Call up.
Find out what happened.
Find out.
Get out of the car.
Get out.
Hold on for a second.
Hold on.
Turn it off please.
Turn it.
Reduction.
Some sounds become weaker or change to
the schwa vowel, which sounds like, uh, examples
.
Can you help me with this problem?
Can you help me?
Can you come here?
Can you?
They need help?
D 'ya.
What do you think about this?
What do you?
I'm going to the store.
I'm.
He's always late.
He's.
She's coming over later.
She's.
They're not here yet.
They're.
We're going on vacation.
We're.
You're the best
.
You're.
It's going to rain.
It's.
There's a problem with the car.
There's.
Where's the nearest station?
Where's.
Who's coming to the party?
Who's.
Contractions.
Contractions occur when we combine two
words to make a shorter form.
Examples.
I'm going to the store now.
I'm going.
I'm going to the store.
I'm.
You're invited to the party.
You're.
He's already finished.
He's.
She's leaving soon.
She's.
It's a beautiful day.
It's.
We're having a great time.
We're.
They're going to be late.
There.
I'll see you later.
I'll.
You'll do great.
You'll.
He'll join us later.
He'll.
She'll be here soon.
She'll.
It'll be fun.
It'll.
We'll meet at noon.
We'll.
They'll arrive tomorrow.
They'll.
I've finished my homework.
I've.
You've got to see this.
You've.
He's finished his work.
He's.
She's already left.
She's.
It's worked well for years.
It's.
We've been waiting.
We've.
They've got the tickets.
They've.
I'd love to go.
I'd.
You'd better hurry.
You'd.
He'd.
He'd like some coffee.
She'd appreciate your help.
She'd.
It'd be nice to meet her.
It'd.
We'd be happy to help.
We'd.
They'd prefer a different time.
They'd.
I'd finish by then.
I'd.
You'd have loved the show.
You'd.
He'd been waiting for hours.
He'd.
She'd gone home early.
She'd.
It'd been a long day.
It'd.
We'd seen that movie before.
We'd.
They'd already left.
They'd.